# Description
This is a course project of the course CS5830: Big Data Laboratory which uses DVC and Git for system and data versioning and finds consistency of datasets obtained from NCEI website.

# Aim
The aim of this assignment is to use the source version control tool Git and data version control tool DVC for tracking the files in this project. The objective of this project is to find the consistency of a given year's dataset using the hourly and monthly data available on the NCEI website.

# Explanation of Flow of Code
1) `params.yaml` - This file has the parameters for a particular experiment which is the year and number of locations for which data has to be downloaded.
2) `download.py` - This code downloads the files for a given here and no. of files specified in above file. It was observed that the ground truth monthly parameters are available in higher proportion for the files starting with digit '7', e.g. `71234567890.csv`.
3) `refine.py` - This code extracts the columns of Hourly and Monthly Relative Humidity, Dew Point Temperature, Sea Level Pressure, Station Pressure and Wet Bulb Temperature, provided they are having atleast a single non-null value. If so, it extracts these 10 columns and saves as a CSV file.
4) `process.py` - This code iterates through the files in the refined archive and computes the monthly averages for the 5 parameters using the hourly data and saves as a CSV file.
5) `prepare.py` - This code is responsible for collecting the ground truth values i.e. the Monthly Average values given by NCEI website for the 5 parameters. These are again compiled together with the computed averages and saved together as stationwise CSV files.
6) `evaluate.py` - This code evaluates the dataset by checking all compliant pairs of computed and ground truth averages and finds the R2 score. If the R2 score is greater than the threshold of 0.9, the dataset is considered to be consistent.
Rest of the files are generated by DVC and GIT and also by the python scripts for data handling.

# Observations
The experiments were conducted for the years 2002, 2011, 2021, 2022 and 2023 with all of them having 20 randomly selected locations except for 2023 which had 30 locations. All the dataset are found to be consistent with R2 scores higher than 0.99. The most consistent dataset was of 2011 with an R2 score of 0.999909 and least consistent dataset was of 2002 with an R2 score of 0.993053.
